README.md, before:

This repository contains the source code for a website that collects email addresses from visitors who want to be notified about the release of [sync-web](https://github.com/asheville/sync-web).

It contains a corresponding server and relies on [sync-server](https://github.com/asheville/sync-server) to process contact verification requests and store notification preferences on behalf of newly generated users.

The following environment variables are required:

- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_HTTPS_PORT`: Port through which to serve this website with HTTPS (e.g. 9091)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_HTTP_PORT`: Port through which to serve this website with HTTP (e.g. 80)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_SSL_KEY`: Path to local SSL key file (e.g. ~/.ssh/certs/sync-web-stub.key)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_SSL_CRT`: Path to local SSL certificate file (e.g. ~/.ssh/certs/sync-web-stub.crt)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_SSL_INT_CRT`: Path to local SSL intermediate CA certificate file (e.g. ~/.ssh/certs/sync-web-stub-int.crt)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_SERVER_HOST`: Host URL of [sync-server](https://github.com/asheville/sync-server), including port

To build the website, install [NPM](https://npmjs.com) and [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com) then run `npm install` and `grunt build`.

To run the server during development while watching for both server and source file changes, run `grunt dev`.

Commit message:

Add systemd remote start/restart script
- Improve README
- Add .certs and .certs-deploy directory support
- Add env deployment support
- Improve build script to be local and independent of environment
- Move dotenv into library
- Automatically create remote directories upon rsync
- Fix forever remote start/restart script name
- Add deploy-forever and deploy-systemd scripts
- Improve app server startup logging
- Refine SublimeText project config

README.md, after:

# Sync web stub

This repository contains the source code for a website that collects email addresses from visitors who want to be notified about the release of [sync-web](https://github.com/asheville/sync-web).

It contains a corresponding server and relies on [sync-server](https://github.com/asheville/sync-server) to process contact verification requests and store notification preferences on behalf of newly generated users.

## Setting up the environment

The code requires several environment variables either to run the server or to deploy it to another system. The following environment variables can be declared by adding a file named `.env` (in [INI format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file)) to the base directory, assuming they're not declared elsewhere in the system already. Such a file will be ignored by Git.

- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_HTTPS_PORT`: Port through which to serve HTTPS requests with the app (e.g. `443`; required to run app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_HTTP_PORT`: Port through which to serve HTTP requests with the app (e.g. `80`; required to run app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_SERVER_HOST`: Host URL of [sync-server](https://github.com/asheville/sync-server), including port (e.g. `127.0.0.1:9090`)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_CERTS_DIR`: Local system path to a directory with the SSL certificate files `key`, `crt` and `ca` needed by the app to serve HTTPs requests (e.g. `/Users/me/sync-web-stub/.certs`; required to run app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_DEPLOY_HOST_USERNAME`: User name with which to SSH into remote deployment server (e.g. `root`; required to deploy app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_DEPLOY_HOST`: Host address for the remote deployment server (e.g. `example.com`; required to deploy app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_DEPLOY_HOST_DIR`: Remote system path to app directory on deployment server (e.g. `/var/www/sync-web-stub`; required to deploy app)
- `SYNC_WEB_STUB_DEPLOY_CERTS_DIR`: Local system path to a directory with the SSL certificate files `key`, `crt` and `ca` needed by the app to serve HTTPs requests *remotely on the deployment server* (e.g. `/Users/me/sync-web-stub/.certs-deploy`; required to deploy app). This directory will be copied to `.certs` within the base directory of the app on the deployment server so the environment variable `SYNC_WEB_STUB_CERTS_DIR` must be set to `.certs` in the deployment environment unless this directory is later moved.

Note that you can create directories called `.certs` and `.certs-deploy` within the base directory to satisfy the `SYNC_WEB_STUB_CERTS_DIR` and `SYNC_WEB_STUB_DEPLOY_CERTS_DIR` variables and they will be ignored by Git.

If you intend to deploy the server to another system using scripts within the "Developing and deploying the server" section below, you can also create a `.env-deploy` file in the base directory, one that will be ignored by Git and used upon deployment to create an `.env` file remotely, thereby setting environment variables on the deployment server.

## Developing and deploying the server

With [Grunt](gruntjs.com) installed in addition to establishing your environment accordingly per the instructions above, you can run any of the following scripts to help with development and deployment:

- `grunt build`: Builds app from source into static files that contain environment-specific features and places them under `build` directory
- `grunt dev`: Runs the app and automatically reloads it when code changes are made during development
- `grunt deploy`: Runs all tests locally, deploys environment and certificate file dependencies, deploys the app remotely, runs `npm install` remotely to ensure the installation of dependencies, and builds remotely
- `grunt deploy-dependencies`: Deploys environment and certificate file dependencies.
- `grunt deploy-app`: Deploys the app remotely, runs `npm install` remotely to ensure the installation of dependencies, and builds remotely
- `grunt deploy-forever`: Runs all tests locally, deploys environment and certificate file dependencies, deploys the app remotely, runs `npm install` remotely to ensure the installation of dependencies, builds remotely, and either starts or restarts the app remotely with [forever](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever). Ensure that Node with NPM and forever are installed remotely before running this script.
- `grunt deploy-systemd`: Runs all tests locally, deploys environment and certificate file dependencies, deploys the app remotely, runs `npm install` remotely to ensure the installation of dependencies, builds remotely, and either starts or restarts the app remotely with [systemd](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/systemd-essentials-working-with-services-units-and-the-journal). Ensure that Node and systemd with a service for the app called `syncwebstub` are installed remotely before running this script.
